[WIP] Context menu, checks, and cooldowns guide (#7952)
Rapptz/discord.py: docs/guide/interactions/checks.rst

.. note::

    For information on slash commands, see the :ref:`Slash Commands Guide <discord_slash_commands>`. For more information on context menus, see the :ref:`Context Menus Guide <guide_interactions_context-menus>`.

.. _guide_interaction_checks_role-check:

Role Checks
------------

These checks allow a simple way to ensure that the user triggering a command has a role, or any role from a set of roles.

.. code-block:: python3
    :emphasize-lines: 2,7

    # Single role check.
    @app_commands.command()
    @app_commands.checks.has_role('Role Name')
    async def single_role_check(interaction: discord.Interaction):
        await interaction.response.send_message('You have the role!', ephemeral=True)

    # Any role from set of roles check.
    @app_commands.context_menu()
    @app_commands.checks.has_any_role('Role Name', 1234567890, 'AnotherOne')
    async def multiple_role_check(interaction: discord.Interaction, user: discord.User):

>         await interaction.response.send_message('You have all the roles!', ephemeral=True)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        await interaction.response.send_message('You have one of the roles!', ephemeral=True)
```
Minor thing, the response here says "you have **all** roles" but the check used is for any of the roles (ie, at least 1)

        await interaction.response.send_message('Hello administrator!', ephemeral=True)

    # Bot permissions check.
    @app_commands.command()
    @app_commands.bot_has_permissions(manage_messages=True, manage_guild=True)
    async def bot_permission_check(interaction: discord.Interaction):
        await interaction.response.send_message('I can do that!', ephemeral=True)

These two checks are identical in usage. The only difference is that one checks the permissions of the user who calls the command, and one checks the permissions of the bot user the command is issued to.

The permissions given to the check can be any number of permissions, which can be found in :class:`.Permissions`, and must have a boolean value.

.. _guide_interaction_checks_cooldown-check:

Cooldown Checks
----------------

It is also possible to use a check decorator that will directly attach a cooldown to your command.

There are two cooldown methods, static and dynamic.

Static Cooldown
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Static cooldowns are methods which limit a command to a certain number of uses per time frame.

.. code-block:: python3
    :emphasize-lines: 2

    @app_commands.command()

>     @app_commands.checks.cooldown(1, 5.0, key=lambda interaction: (i.guild_id, i.user.id))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @app_commands.checks.cooldown(1, 5.0, key=lambda interaction: (interaction.guild_id, interaction.user.id))
```
Minor syntax error here, I elected to use the change the body to `interaction` instead of the arg to `i` since I think it would be clearer to beginners

    async def cooldown_check(interaction: discord.Interaction):
        await interaction.response.send_message('Not on cooldown yet!', ephemeral=True)

The :func:`@cooldown <.app_commands.checks.cooldown>` decorator takes 3 possible arguments:

- The ``rate`` parameter first takes an integer value. This value is the number of usages that can be used within a time frame before the cooldown is activated.
- The ``per`` parameter then takes a float value. This is the number of seconds to wait for a cooldown once it has been activated.
- The third and final parameter, ``key``, can be used to specify what criteria are used for applying the cooldown. This is given as a function that takes a :class:`.Interaction` as an argument, and can be a coroutine.

Now that we know what the parameters for a static cooldown are, let's take a closer look at the shown example:

> - The ``rate`` is set to ``1``, so the cooldown will trigger every time the command is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The ``rate`` parameter is set to ``1``, so the cooldown will trigger every time the command is used.
```

What is `rate`? Is it an attr, variable, etc? Ensure that the reader knows what it is even though it has been mentioned a bunch of times.

> - The ``per`` param is set to ``5.0``, so the cooldown will lock the command for 5 seconds when it is used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The ``per`` parameter is set to ``5.0``, so the cooldown will lock the command for 5 seconds when it is used.
```
since you are already using the word parameter in the other sentences, might as well keep it consistent just to be clear to the reader. even though it's me nitpicking, this is just me going through it and making sure it's consistent and checking for flow

.. code-block:: python3

    @app_commands.command()
    @app_commands.checks.has_role('Necessary Role')
    @app_commands.checks.has_permissions(send_messages=True)
    @app_commands.checks.bot_has_permissions(manage_messages=True)
    @app_commands.checks.cooldown(1, 15.0, key=None)
    async def check_example(interaction: discord.Interaction):
        await interaction.send_message('Checks passed!', ephemeral=True)

.. _guide_interaction_checks_global-checks:

Global Interaction Checks
--------------------------

In addition to adding individual or combined checks onto specific app commands or context menus, it is also possible to create global interaction checks. For these, any interaction
passed through the bot for either app commands or context menus will first run this check.

In order to implement a global check, we will need to create our own subclass of the :class:`.app_commands.CommandTree` class, and implement the :meth:`.app_commands.CommandTree.interaction_check` method.

.. code-block:: python3

    import discord
    from discord.ext import commands

>     class MyCommandTree(discord.app_commands.CommandTree):

Reviewer 3: I went back and forth on this one a few times...I was worried that having a collection of imports might distract from the intention of showing the rest of the code. But the way it is currently is quite long and can be confusing as well, so i wasnt sure. probably better to go with your route tbh

>     class MyCommandTree(discord.app_commands.CommandTree):

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure i agree with this here. Consistency is better than conciseness, and it can get confusing to throw names around in code snippets. I could see importing app_commands instead, but i wouldn't go further than that

>     class MyCommandTree(discord.app_commands.CommandTree):

Reviewer 5: Definitely agree with Tom. The [examples](https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py/tree/master/examples/app_commands) utilize an app_commands import. Feels like it'd be better to use that for consistency.

>     class MyCommandTree(discord.app_commands.CommandTree):

Reviewer 3: I like this middle ground, and keeping in line with the examples makes sense. I will update when I get home from work.

>     class MyCommandTree(discord.app_commands.CommandTree):

Reviewer 3: Added this one in!

    It must be used on the parent command of a command group.

.. _guide_integration_permissions_default-perms:

Default Permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :func:`default_permissions <.app_commands.default_permissions>` decorator will set the default permissions necessary
for a user to execute a slash command or interact with a context menu.

Using this means that a slash command or context menu will by default require the provided permissions.
However, an administrator in the server will be able to override these permissions directly in the Discord client,
without the bot's knowledge.

.. code-block:: python3

    @app_commands.command()
    @app_commands.default_permissions(administrator=True)
    async def default_permissions_slash_command(interaction: discord.Interaction) -> None:
        await interaction.response.send_message('Greetings administrator & whoever else was given permission!')

    @app_commands.context_menu(name='User Context')
    @app_commands.default_permissions(manage_messages=True, manage_guild=True)
    async def default_permissions_slash_command(interaction: discord.Interaction, user: discord.User) -> None:

>         await interaction.response.send_message('You may or may not have those permissions!'

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        await interaction.response.send_message('You may or may not have those permissions!')
```

:orphan:

.. currentmodule:: discord

.. _guide_interaction_checks:

Interaction Checks Guide
=========================

Checks are a feature that allows you to set requirements in order for a command to be executed. This can include things like requiring administrator permissions, requiring a user to have a role, making sure that the bot has necessary permissions to execute a task, adding a cooldown to a command, creating a custom check function, or any combination of these.

> These checks will be used as decorators in conjunction with any :func:`@app_commands.command <.app_commands.command>` or :func:`@app_commands.context_menu <.app_commands.context_menu>` decorators.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Checks are decorators used with any :func:`@app_commands.command <.app_commands.command>` or :func:`@app_commands.context_menu <.app_commands.context_menu>` decorator.
```

It feels weird to not have a descriptor on what these values are...I know that these checks can be applied as decorators on the Command or ContextMenu object if created directly as well, but the "intended"/standard usage is in combination with decorators.

    async def multiple_role_check(interaction: discord.Interaction, user: discord.User):
        await interaction.response.send_message('You have one of the roles!', ephemeral=True)

Let's take a quick look through the code here:

- First, a simple :class:`.app_commands.Command` is registered using the :func:`@app_commands.command() <.app_commands.command>` decorator.
- Then, a :func:`@has_role <.app_commands.checks.has_role>` check is added to ensure that a user has a given role. This role can either be a :class:`str` representing the name of the role, or an :class:`int` representing the id of the role.
- Then, the actual function callback for the command is created.

A very similar process happens for checking multiple roles:

- First, a :class:`.app_commands.ContextMenu` is registered using the :func:`@app_commands.context_menu() <.app_commands.context_menu>` decorator.
- Then, a :func:`@has_role <.app_commands.checks.has_any_role>` is added for multiple roles. Again, these roles are either :class:`str` or :class:`int` values.
- Then, the callback for the context menu is created.

.. _guide_interaction_checks_permission-check:

Permission Checks
------------------

> These checks handle validating whether the user activating a command has certain permissions in a server, or whether the bot user has specific permissions.

Reviewer 3: old habits lol

- The ``rate`` parameter is set to ``1``, so the cooldown will trigger every time the command is used.
- The ``per`` parameter is set to ``5.0``, so the cooldown will lock the command for 5 seconds when it is used.
- The ``key`` parameter has a ``lambda`` function which accepts the :class:`.Interaction`, and then returns a tuple for the :attr:`~.Interaction.guild_id` and :attr:`user.id <.Interaction.user>` values. This means that the cooldown will be put in effect for each user individually, in each server.

Putting it all together: an individual user can use the command once every five seconds in any one guild. This means that if they were to then proceed to use the command in another guild, the cooldown from the first guild would not be applied.

.. note::

    By default, the "key" parameter will operate on the :class:`.User` level. So if no "key" parameter is specified, the cooldown will be applied per user, globally. Similarly, if the "key" parameter is set to "None", then the cooldown is considered a "global" cooldown for all users and guilds.

Dynamic Cooldown
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Dynamic cooldowns allow you to register a custom handler for cooldown checks.

Reviewer 3: It feels like the sentence is cut short here, maybe
```suggestion
Dynamic cooldowns allow you to register a custom check and a cooldown with different ``rate`` and ``per`` parameters for different scenarios.
```

> Dynamic cooldowns allow you to register a custom handler for cooldown checks.

Reviewer 6: Yeah that's definitely better

.. code-block:: python3
    :emphasize-lines: 10

    def cooldown_skip_owner(interaction: discord.Interaction) -> Optional[app_commands.Cooldown]:
        if interactions.user.id == 1234567890:
            return app_commands.Cooldown(1, 5.0)
        if interactions.guild is not None and interactions.guild.owner_id == interactions.user.id:
            return None

        return app_commands.Cooldown(1, 10.0)

    @app_commands.command()
    @app_commands.checks.dynamic_cooldown(cooldown_skip_owner)
    async def dynamic_cooldown_check(interaction: discord.Interaction):
        await interaction.response.send_message('Not on cooldown!', ephemeral=True)

> The :func:`@dynamic_cooldown <.app_commands.checks.dynamic_cooldown>` is passed a reference to a function, which can be used to control when to apply a different cooldown to specific use-cases, or ignore it all together.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The :func:`@dynamic_cooldown <.app_commands.checks.dynamic_cooldown>` is passed a function, which controls when to apply a cooldown and its ``rate`` and ``per`` parameters, or ignore it all together.
```
It feels weird to me to just say "its ``rate`` and ``per``", I feel like the word "parameter" in their makes it a little more clear.

- The return value of the interaction determines whether the check is passed. A ``False`` value will fail the check, while a ``True`` value will pass.
- Lastly, we need to tell our bot to use this command tree.
    - For a :class:`.Client` implementation that does not use the commands extension, we create the client instance and then instantiate the custom command tree by passing that client in.
    - For a :class:`.ext.commands.Bot` implementation, we can pass in our customer command tree class directly when we instantiate the bot.
- After this, any interactions across the entire bot will first have this check run before continuing.

.. note::

    When checks do not pass, they will throw an error. By implementing custom error handling for these errors,
    you can create a system that will do something different when a check is failed.
    See the :ref:`Error Handling Guide <guide_error_handling>` for further information on this.

.. _guide_integration_permissions:

Integration Permissions
------------------------

> In addition to the standard check functionality, there are a few additional functionalities that behave similarly.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In addition to the previously mentioned checks, there are a few other "check-like" functionalities provided.
```
Remove the duplication

> These options include:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
These include:
```
options wasn't used in the previous sentence

- The :func:`@app_commands.default_permissions() <.app_commands.default_permissions>` decorator.
- The :func:`@app_commands.guild_only() <.app_commands.guild_only>` decorator.
- The ``nsfw`` parameter for :func:`commands <.app_commands.command>` and :func:`context menus <.app_commands.context_menu>`.

The main difference is that these features are handled by Discord itself, client-side, before the interaction is ever handed off
to the bot to work with. However, the drawback to this is that it is not possible to perform any sort of custom error
handling when these situations arise.

.. note::

    If you wish to perform error handling of these kinds of features yourself,

>     you can implement a :ref:`custom check <guide_interaction_checks_custom-check>` to do this and not utilize these
>     features.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    you can implement a :ref:`custom check <guide_interaction_checks_custom-check>`.
```
wording seems unnecessary

.. warning::

    Due to a limitation of Discord, these features cannot be applied directly to a subcommand.
    It must be used on the parent command of a command group.

.. _guide_integration_permissions_default-perms:

Default Permissions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :func:`default_permissions <.app_commands.default_permissions>` decorator will set the default permissions necessary
for a user to execute a slash command or interact with a context menu.

Using this means that a slash command or context menu will by default require the provided permissions.
However, an administrator in the server will be able to override these permissions directly in the Discord client,

> without the bot ever being any the wiser.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
without the bot's knowledge.
```
use easier to understand language

.. code-block:: python3

    @app_commands.command()
    @app_commands.default_permissions(administrator=True)
    async def default_permissions_slash_command(interaction: discord.Interaction) -> None:
        await interaction.response.send_message('Greetings administrator & whoever else was given permission!')

    @app_commands.context_menu(name='User Context')
    @app_commands.default_permissions(manage_messages=True, manage_guild=True)
    async def default_permissions_slash_command(interaction: discord.Interaction, user: discord.User) -> None:
        await interaction.response.send_message('You may or may not have those permissions!'

In the first example above, we limit the permissions to use the slash command to administrators only by default.

.. note::

    Not passing any parameters to the :func:`default_permissions <.app_commands.default_permissions>` will result
    in the default permissions being set to administrator only.

In the second example, the context menu will be limited to only users with the ``delete_messages`` and ``manage_guild``

> permissions. The provided values can be any number of permissions, which can be found in :class:`.Permissions`,

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
permissions. The provided values can be any number of :class:`.Permissions`,
```

    async def check_example(interaction: discord.Interaction):
        await interaction.send_message('Checks passed!', ephemeral=True)

Global Interaction Checks
-------------------------

In addition to adding individual or combined checks onto specific app commands or context menus, it is also possible to create global interaction checks. For these, any interaction

> passed through the bot for either app commands or context menus will first run this check.

Reviewer 2: i'll have to double check this later to see if it works on context menus or not, but it should work on all slash commands

Reviewer 3: I did verify this one already, it works on both context menus and slash commands.

Reviewer 2: then that section should be fine
